Thursday 7th December
3.30pm – 5.15pm
Westminster, 4th floor


P160


With the Winter Meeting only a short while away, we would like to remind you of the following:


1)  Your poster must be on display in the Whittle and Fleming rooms on the 3rd floor, by 8.30am on the morning you are due to present.  It must be removed before the end of the afternoon (or by 2pm if presenting on Friday 8th December). Any posters not removed by the end of each day may be destroyed.  You should be present next to your poster between 10am and 11am to answer informal questions.

 

2)  The posters in your group will be formally discussed in a Poster Discussion Session, as previously notified to you, and at least one of the authors must be present throughout this time. The main author (or nominated author) is expected to give a two minute presentation, followed by five minutes for questions and discussion. You should not expect to present the whole of your abstract during this time, but should use the two minutes to discuss your major findings. It is expected that you will stay for the whole of the discussion session, as a courtesy to all participants.   The final programme will be available via the website link below on 15th November.

 

3)  Poster presenters may submit ONE PowerPoint slide for display during the presentation.  This slide MUST be submitted to the conference centre in advance and it will not be possible to either check or amend the slide on site on the day.  Slides not submitted in advance will not be allowed.  Please see the guidelines below for submitting your slide.

 

Your presentation is part of the programme and you (or one of your co-authors) must attend and present as detailed above.  If you haven't already registered, then please do so before 20th   November via:  https://www.brit-thoracic.org.uk/bts-learning-hub/bts-summer-and-winter-meetings/winter-meeting-2017/. 

 

Upon arrival at the conference centre on the day of your presentation, please report to the Poster section of the registration desks.


Thank you for submitting work to the Winter Meeting this year. We look forward to hearing more about it.


Yours faithfully

 



BTS Conference Team

----------------------------------------------------------------

GUIDANCE FOR POWERPOINT SLIDE SUBMISSION FOR POSTER PRESENTERS

 

To ensure optimum efficiency for speakers we ask that you read this sheet carefully.  You may only use ONE PowerPoint slide to accompany your presentation and this MUST be submitted in advance.

 

 
POWERPOINT PRESENTATIONS

Please note that you cannot use your own computer – facilities are provided at the Centre.  The Centre uses Windows 7 Professional/Microsoft Office 2013 operating system with PowerPoint 2013, and so can work with that version, PowerPoint 2016 or any earlier versions (eg 2003, 2007, 2010). The PCs at the QEII Centre do NOT have floppy drives OR zip drives, as these have been superseded by the use of USB sticks and CDs. It is possible to run sound within presentations, but we do need to know in advance if you require this facility.

 

New for 2017! All of the screens at the QEII are now widescreen and generally run 16:9 presentations at a resolution of 1920 x 1080. Standard format (4:3) can, however, still be displayed.

 

Arrangements may be made for MAC presentations, but we must know this in advance and it is preferable that you bring your own MAC and display adapter with you to plug in at the lectern. 

 

We would be grateful if you would send your slide direct to the Centre no later than Monday 4th December 2017.  We aim to have a technical rehearsal of all data presentations later that week and have the sessions set up in advance.  We do this in the hope that this will enhance the experience of delegates and presenters alike, and hope that it will be less stressful for presenters on the day.  We would therefore be most grateful for your co-operation.  
 

Your slide should be forwarded to the QEII Centre via their FTP Site:

 

                Please go to:  https://upload.qeiicentre.london/bts/  and follow the instructions.

 

Please note that the FTP site will be closed at 5.00pm on Monday 4th December, after which date you will not be able to submit your presentation via the site or via email. 

 

Presentations that include video and sound clips must be contained within the same folder as your PowerPoint presentation. This folder must then be zipped (.zip) to be uploaded to the FTP site.

 

IMPORTANT!

1)      For back-up purposes, we also request that all presenters bring a copy of their presentation on USB flash drive on the day of the event.

2)      When saving your presentation, please ensure that the fonts are embedded.  This should avoid the problem of slides appearing to be incorrectly formatted on screen.  Also, if there are video files inserted in your presentation, please bring the original video file (MPEG, MOV or WMV) on a separate USB flash drive, as PowerPoint does not save the video file, only a link to the original file location (dependant on settings).

 

PREVIEW ARRANGEMENTS

It will not be possible for poster presenters to check their PowerPoint slide in the speakers' preview room on site.

 

If you have any further queries about the technical side of your presentation, please contact the Audio Visual Department at the QEII Centre direct via:  bts2017presentations@qeiicentre.london

 

We hope that your presentation goes well!

 

 

SOME USEFUL INFORMATION ABOUT POSTERS

 

The poster as a form of presentation at scientific meetings is here to stay. It is not supposed to be less prestigious than the spoken presentations and has certain advantages. Interested colleagues will have read the abstract in the programme and will make a bee-line for the poster and its author and well-informed discussion will then ensue. Such people may not mind if the poster is detailed and lengthy in its description of the work done, but other more casual visitors will only stop if the eye is caught.

 

Poster guidelines:

 

Whilst there are no set guidelines for designing a research poster, the key points below should help you:

 

    The display boards are 2 metres wide x 1 metre high (i.e. landscape style) and are fabric faced. Please bring your own Velcro Hook and/or drawing pins to attach your posters to the display boards. Sellotape and Blu-Tac are not to be used. When constructing/designing your poster remember to leave enough room for you to be able to stand next to the poster and not in front of it.

 

    The majority of posters are now produced electronically and printed using a large format printer. We encourage delegates to use this method and not to use individual sheets of paper where possible.

 

    The abstract need not be displayed in full, as it will be in the programme. The abstract title and authors should be displayed across the top of the poster and should be visible from at least 6 feet away.

 

    Use key headings such as “Introduction”, “Methods”, “Results” and “Conclusions” in large font with text under each. Key headings should be visible from at least 6ft away. Try to ensure the final main body text size is at least 28pt in size – if necessary cut out text so you can increase the text size. San-serif fonts work better for large font sizes. Paragraphs should be short, and in most cases bullet points work better. Ideally your poster should be readable to the viewer from 3ft away.

 

    Graphs and tables should be clear and as large as possible. It is usually worth sacrificing some detail for the sake of clarity. Colour is an advantage to highlight points and lower case lettering should be used as far as possible as this is easier to read. The text, tables and graphics should look integrated. The same typeface should be used for all if possible and ruled lines separating different types of information should be avoided.

 

    The most difficult aspect of making a poster is getting the layout correct. Try to ensure the poster “flows” and that the contents of each section are clear to the viewer. Usually, the simpler the poster, the better.

 

    Try to make your poster genuinely attractive and eye-catching to look at. It needs to have some of the same properties as an advertisement – effectively you are selling your research data/ideas to other delegates. A well designed poster will effectively sell your research, whereas a poorly designed poster will almost certainly detract from the content.

 

INFORMATION FROM SCIENCE POSTERS

 

Once again, the British Thoracic Society have agreed to incorporate Sciencepostershttp://www.scienceposters.co.uk/index_htm_files/0.gif  as an optional poster service for poster presenters at the Winter Meeting 2017, to be held at the QEII Centre from 6th to 8th December 2017.

 

There are two options:

 

1)            Poster design and print – £130.00.  Scienceposters will design and print your poster.  Poster        content must be submitted by Wednesday 15th November 2017 to allow enough time to          design and process.  Posters will be designed AO landscape and printed on fabric.

 

2)            Poster printing on silk foldable fabric – only £40.00 (a saving of over £30.00 on the            standard price for a delivered poster).

              

POSTERS SHOULD BE SIZED 84.0cm high x 118.8cm wide (A0 landscape) for printing.

 

As per previous BTS Meetings, we are once again offering a collection service where delegates can collect their poster on arrival at the Meeting. The above prices include delivery to the QEII. Scienceposters are working with the BTS secretariat to ensure safe delivery.  All posters will be delivered in an A4 box, in which you can transport your poster home.

 

The deadline for the print-only service is strictly Friday 1st December 2017.  We can still send posters after this date but the standard delivery fee will apply. For urgent/last minute posters please contact us to ensure we can print/design in time to ensure delivery.

If presenters choose to receive their poster and take it themselves to the Meeting, then posters can be despatched using Royal Mail 24hr tracked (£7.50 for one poster). This also applies to paper posters.

 

To send your posters for printing or design simply upload them using the link below.  Please indicate whether they are for design and print or just printing.

 

https://www.scienceposters.co.uk/bts.htm

 

NOTE:  Please see the advice on the Scienceposters website re: fixing of fabric posters to the poster boards.

 

Twitter: @Scienceposters    #BTSWinter2017

 

_________________________________________________________________________________

 

British Thoracic Society

17 Doughty Street

LONDON 

WC1N 2PL

 

Tel  ++ 44 (0) 20 7831 8778

Fax ++ 44 (0) 20 7831 8766

www.brit-thoracic.org.uk

 

P Please don't print this e-mail unless you really need to.

This email and any files transmitted with it are intended solely for the use of the individual or entity to whom they are addressed. If you have received this email in error please notify the originator of the message. BTS also confirms that this email message has been scanned for the presence of computer viruses but this should not be relied upon as a guarantee that the contents are virus free.

Any views expressed in this message are those of the individual sender, except where the sender specifies and with authority states them to be the view of the British Thoracic Society (BTS). The information contained in this e-mail may be subject to public disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act 2000.  Unless the information is legally exempt from disclosure, the confidentiality of this e-mail and your reply cannot be guaranteed.

The British Thoracic Society is a Company Limited by Guarantee –  Number 1654201. Registered Office: 17 Doughty Street, London, WC1N 2PL.

Registered as a Charity in England and Wales with number 285174, and registered in Scotland with number SC041209.
